Documentation/virt/coco/tdx-guest.rst, before:

.. SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0

===================================================================
TDX Guest API Documentation
===================================================================

1. General description
======================

The TDX guest driver exposes IOCTL interfaces via the /dev/tdx-guest misc
device to allow userspace to get certain TDX guest-specific details.

2. API description
==================

In this section, for each supported IOCTL, the following information is
provided along with a generic description.

:Input parameters: Parameters passed to the IOCTL and related details.
:Output: Details about output data and return value (with details about
         the non common error values).

2.1 TDX_CMD_GET_REPORT0
-----------------------

:Input parameters: struct tdx_report_req
:Output: Upon successful execution, TDREPORT data is copied to
         tdx_report_req.tdreport and return 0. Return -EINVAL for invalid
         operands, -EIO on TDCALL failure or standard error number on other
         common failures.

The TDX_CMD_GET_REPORT0 IOCTL can be used by the attestation software to get
the TDREPORT0 (a.k.a. TDREPORT subtype 0) from the TDX module using
TDCALL[TDG.MR.REPORT].

A subtype index is added at the end of this IOCTL CMD to uniquely identify the
subtype-specific TDREPORT request. Although the subtype option is mentioned in
the TDX Module v1.0 specification, section titled "TDG.MR.REPORT", it is not
currently used, and it expects this value to be 0. So to keep the IOCTL
implementation simple, the subtype option was not included as part of the input
ABI. However, in the future, if the TDX Module supports more than one subtype,
a new IOCTL CMD will be created to handle it. To keep the IOCTL naming
consistent, a subtype index is added as part of the IOCTL CMD.

2.2 TDX_CMD_VERIFY_REPORT
-------------------------

:Input parameters: struct tdx_verify_report_req
:Output: Return 0 on success, -EIO on TDCALL failure or standard error number
         on common failures. On TDCALL failure, error code is copied to
         tdx_verify_report_req.err_code.

The TDX_CMD_VERIFY_REPORT IOCTL can be used by userspace application to verify
whether the given REPORTMACSTRUCT (part of TDREPORT struct) is generated in the
current platform using TDG.MR.VERIFYREPORT TDCALL.

Reference
---------

TDX reference material is collected here:

https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/articles/technical/intel-trust-domain-extensions.html

The driver is based on TDX module specification v1.0 and TDX GHCI specification v1.0.

Commit message:

virt: tdx-guest: Add RTMR update interface
Intel TDX guests support 1 MRTD and 4 RTMR registers to record the
various details of the TDX guest. It is mainly used to support
applications like attestation and trusted boot. The TDX guest's static
information, such as the TDVF code, configuration, etc., are recorded
in the MRTD register. RTMR measurement registers are used to record
measurements related to data loaded into the TDX guest at run-time
(like TDVF configuration, GPT, kernel, initrd, command line params,
etc). To facilitate RTMR register update, the TDX Module provides
support for TDG.MR.RTMR.EXTEND TDCALL  which can be used to securely
extend the RTMR registers. More details about TDG.MR.RTMR.EXTEND can be
found in TDX Module specificaiton, v1.0, section titled
"TDG.MR.RTMR.EXTEND Leaf".

As per TDVF specification, section titled "Measurement Register Usage
in TD", following is the recommended usage of RTMR registers.

RTMR[0] is for the TDVF configuration.
RTMR[1] is for the TD OS loader or kernel.
RTMR[2] is for the OS application.
RTMR[3] is reserved for special usage only.

Add an IOCTL interface to allow userspace to update RTMR registers > 1
since RTMR[2] and RTMR[3] can be used by OS applications.

Signed-off-by: Kuppuswamy Sathyanarayanan <sathyanarayanan.kuppuswamy@linux.intel.com>

Documentation/virt/coco/tdx-guest.rst, after:

.. SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-2.0

===================================================================
TDX Guest API Documentation
===================================================================

1. General description
======================

The TDX guest driver exposes IOCTL interfaces via the /dev/tdx-guest misc
device to allow userspace to get certain TDX guest-specific details.

2. API description
==================

In this section, for each supported IOCTL, the following information is
provided along with a generic description.

:Input parameters: Parameters passed to the IOCTL and related details.
:Output: Details about output data and return value (with details about
         the non common error values).

2.1 TDX_CMD_GET_REPORT0
-----------------------

:Input parameters: struct tdx_report_req
:Output: Upon successful execution, TDREPORT data is copied to
         tdx_report_req.tdreport and return 0. Return -EINVAL for invalid
         operands, -EIO on TDCALL failure or standard error number on other
         common failures.

The TDX_CMD_GET_REPORT0 IOCTL can be used by the attestation software to get
the TDREPORT0 (a.k.a. TDREPORT subtype 0) from the TDX module using
TDCALL[TDG.MR.REPORT].

A subtype index is added at the end of this IOCTL CMD to uniquely identify the
subtype-specific TDREPORT request. Although the subtype option is mentioned in
the TDX Module v1.0 specification, section titled "TDG.MR.REPORT", it is not
currently used, and it expects this value to be 0. So to keep the IOCTL
implementation simple, the subtype option was not included as part of the input
ABI. However, in the future, if the TDX Module supports more than one subtype,
a new IOCTL CMD will be created to handle it. To keep the IOCTL naming
consistent, a subtype index is added as part of the IOCTL CMD.

2.2 TDX_CMD_VERIFY_REPORT
-------------------------

:Input parameters: struct tdx_verify_report_req
:Output: Return 0 on success, -EIO on TDCALL failure or standard error number
         on common failures. On TDCALL failure, error code is copied to
         tdx_verify_report_req.err_code.

The TDX_CMD_VERIFY_REPORT IOCTL can be used by userspace application to verify
whether the given REPORTMACSTRUCT (part of TDREPORT struct) is generated in the
current platform using TDG.MR.VERIFYREPORT TDCALL.

2.3 TDX_CMD_EXTEND_RTMR
-----------------------

:Input parameters: struct tdx_extend_rtmr_req
:Output: Return 0 on success, -EIO on TDCALL failure, -EBUSY for TDX Module busy
         condition, or standard error number on common failures.

The TDX_CMD_VERIFY_REPORT IOCTL can be used by userspace application to extend
RTMR registers > 1 with user specified data using TDG.MR.RTMR.EXTEND TDCALL.

Reference
---------

TDX reference material is collected here:

https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/articles/technical/intel-trust-domain-extensions.html

The driver is based on TDX module specification v1.0 and TDX GHCI specification v1.0.
